This is actually the security
session on Authorization.
I'm Craig Keithley.
I'm Apple's security and
cryptography evangelist.
And today what we're going to talk
about is Authorization in Mac OS X.
There's a number of areas where
authorization is useful in the
operating system to check whether or
not you have the rights to do things.
It's not quite the same
thing as authentication,
and we'll discuss that in greater detail,
but you can make the operating system,
you can make the user experience more
secure by using the authorization APIs.
So having said that,
let me bring out Michael Brouwere
and he'll talk about this in depth.
Thanks.
came to talk about authorization.
First,
I want to go over some of the things
that you'll learn in today's session.
Um, the Authorization API was
put into Mac OS X,
um, because unlike Mac OS 9,
there's actually, um, privileges
There's a difference between
applications that run as you,
as a regular user,
and applications that can modify
certain parts of the system,
like changing certain system
configuration parameters.
There's traditional Unix settings
that you won't be able to modify
unless you have privileges.
Now, we tried to create this API in
order to let you manage modifying
those things in a way that doesn't
necessarily compromise security.
So, let me go over some of the
things you'll learn today.
You'll learn how to make applications
that need to access these
privileged parts of the system.
We'll also go over how you can make an
installer that can install an application
that needs to do these things.
And you'll also learn how to use
these privileged calls that exist
in OS X without having to run
your entire application as root,
or as the user with UID 0.
And I'll go over some of the
reasons why you don't want to run
your entire application as root.
So, first I'll talk a little bit
about what authorization is.
Often when we talk about authorization,
people confuse it with authentication,
and those are two different things.
Authentication consists of identifying
the person behind the computer,
or identifying who's there
currently doing something.
Authorization, on the other hand,
is once you've identified what the
user is that's using the system,
determining whether or not you
should allow him to do something.
And whatever that something is
that depends on your application.
I'll talk a little bit about what the
Authorization API does and doesn't do.
I mean, there's some things that
people wish it would do,
but we can't right now.
And so I'll go into a little
bit more detail about the
Authorization Services API.
And finally,
I'll cover some examples of how
not to use it and how to use it.
We've seen some things come up
from developers and from people
inside Apple and outside Apple that
they were trying to use the API,
and we saw some examples
of good ways to use it,
but we also saw some examples
of bad ways to use it.
So, in order to kind of cover the
things that have happened,
the mistakes people have made,
I want to kind of go over that and
show some of the commonly made mistakes
and show some of the things that you
can do to avoid those mistakes or
to not have to make those mistakes.
So, talked a little bit about
authorization versus authentication.
Want to make sure that
everyone is aware of it.
So,
The key goal of the Authorization
API is that you ask for
permission to do something.
Normally,
that results in us asking the user
for an administrative password.
That is actually the authentication step
that happens below the authorization.
That doesn't have to be the
way the problem gets resolved.
It could be something like user
has to insert a smart card or you
have to present a fingerprint,
which is another form of authentication.
If you've already authenticated earlier,
it could be that you're automatically
authorized to do what you're
asking for permission to do.
So rather than worrying
about who the user is,
when you're using authorization API,
you just worry about what the
operation is you're doing and whether
that's allowed at the current time.
Now, why would you want to use
Authorization Services?
Because, as you'll see later,
at the point where you would be calling
Authorization Services in your program,
your program could already
do what it needs to do.
I mean,
you already need to have the privileges
in order to make the change or the call
into the system that you want to make.
The reason to use Authorization
API is to make an explicit decision
and to let an administrator
actually configure who can do what,
rather than having the
application decide,
"Oh, it's okay when on my iMac at home
I'm changing the network settings.
That's perfectly fine.
Anyone should be able to do that,
right?" Well, that's probably true
in your iMac at home.
On the other hand,
that's probably not true on
that same iMac in an educational
situation or in a lab or something,
where you don't want users just
changing the network settings.
You want them changing the IP address.
That's something that the administrator
needs to be able to control.
So, if you use the Authorization API,
it allows the administrator to make
the decisions on who can do what,
rather than you as the programmer
developer of an application that
needs to do privileged operations.
Another thing is that using
the Authorization API,
all authorization goes
through a central point.
Everything funnels through
Authorization Services.
That makes it easier to audit your
code and the system as a whole,
because there's one place where all
operations go through before they happen.
Like I said before,
it makes it configurable and,
more importantly, securable.
The default way we ship
OS X out of the box,
we try to be secure as far as who
can access your machine over the
network by not running any network
services and things like that.
We don't really try to be secure as far
as if you're sitting behind the computer,
you can pretty much do
everything with your computer,
the default configuration.
Now, like I said before,
in a lab situation or a school situation,
different environments,
you might not want the person sitting
behind the computer to be able to
control everything on that machine.
So it's securable, it's configurable,
it's flexible.
And the other main advantage is
you're explicitly making a decision.
Often, traditionally in Unix and
traditionally in many systems,
authorization is something
that's kind of done ad hoc.
If you look at regular Unix login,
the decision whether or not you can
login depends on whether or not you
can enter a username and password.
Well,
that's not really doing authorization,
that's just doing the authentication.
The step whether it allows you to login
then later is determined by looking
at some file in some directory saying,
"Is this user listed as one that's
not allowed to login?" So that
basically makes that you have...
Um, one method for doing this for login.
For something else,
like logging in through FTP, um,
there might be a different file,
and SSH has its own other file.
So each separate service on
the system has potentially some
way of doing authorization,
but not every service has it.
So by having all applications
go through this one API,
It makes it easier to secure the system
and much easier to see what's happening.
So, if you were to write an application
that uses Authorization Services,
there's basically three pieces involved.
The security server that you see
on the top is part of Mac OS X,
and it's the central authority
that keeps track of who's allowed
to do what at any given time.
Now, your application on the left,
is just a regular application
running without any privileges.
Now, within your application wrapper,
you can ship a tool,
and that tool should be able to
run with elevated privileges.
Most cases,
it'll be running with user ID 0.
In certain cases,
it might only need access to be
in a certain Unix group if all
you need is to write to certain
directories that are privileged based
on group IDs rather than user IDs.
Now, when your application wants to
make a change to the system or
perform some operation that it
wouldn't normally be able to do,
it--
First asks the security
server for authorization.
And what that does is it makes
some state in the security server
remember that for this authorization,
these things are allowed.
And the next thing it does is it
launches the tool and passes that
authorization along to the tool.
Now, the tool,
that's the very first thing it does,
it decodes that authorization and checks
the rights of that authorization with
the security server to make sure that
the app making the request is really
allowed to do what it's asking for.
And once it's verified that it's okay,
it goes ahead and performs the operation.
So,
something I want to say about operation,
just that wasn't really clear
to some people last year.
The level of what such operations
should be should be something that
the user-- the user-visible operation.
So it would be something like
changing your network settings.
And that might involve doing five
different system calls into the
kernel or writing three different
configuration files and restarting
a daemon and who knows what.
You want to define that as one operation
because from the user's point of view,
he's only doing one thing.
And if you're gonna
ask for authorization,
which might end up in a
dialog for each operation,
you really don't want five
dialogs for one user operation.
So currently,
Authorization API is password-based only.
: This isn't entirely true
because we will in Jaguar have a
plugin architecture which isn't
published yet as a public API,
but if you go to the Darwin sources you
can take a look at that because all the
authorization API stuff is in Darwin.
So there is a plugin architecture which,
for one thing,
allows us to hook up with Kerberos.
One of the new things we will
be doing as of Jaguar as opposed
to in 10.1 is we're using
Directory Services rather than NetInfo.
Out of the box it still uses
NetInfo because out of the box
Directory Services uses NetInfo.
If you configure your system to
use some LLAP server or some other
service for directory services,
Authorization API will
use that as its backend.
Also in Jaguar,
some of the lower-level parts of
the system have been PAMified,
so they'll all use the PAM API,
and the default configuration
for PAM actually goes through
the Authorization API.
So whichever way you configure
the Authorization API,
all forms of authorization and
authentication on the system
will go through one funnel,
which is the Authorization Services API.
So what the Authorization API does
is it answers the "do I have
the right to do this?" question.
It doesn't actually give you
the ability to do something
that you couldn't do before.
Um,
it basically helps you if your privileged
tool or component in your application
that potentially could already,
say, reformat the hard drive,
Whether it should do that on
behalf of the user is a question,
because if the user is just some kid
that is using a regular user account and
not the administrator for that system,
he probably shouldn't be able
to reformat your hard disk.
Um,
and it automatically provides the user
interaction needed if it's needed.
So what it doesn't do,
like I said before,
it answers the "Do I have the
right to do this?" question.
It doesn't enable you to do something
that you couldn't do before.
And that's because Mac OS X is
not capability-based,
which basically--Mac OS X is still
traditional Unix in terms of privileges.
Privileges are based on user ID,
and as far as Unix is concerned,
there's only two types of users.
There's non-root users
and there's root users.
And so authorization services
assumes that your application is
using the standard Unix model,
but aids you in making finer-grain
decisions about who can do what.
So, case study.
Here's an example of how
OS X could be improved by using
the Authorization API correctly.
I'm sure you've all run into the problem
once where you've thrown away something
in the trash and Finder couldn't
delete it later because you didn't
have privileges to delete it because of
the file system permissions on Mac OS X.
Well, if there's something in the
trash that you can't delete,
it would be--if Finder were to
have a separate tool that knew
how to empty the trash and use
Authorization Services to determine
whether or not it should do that,
you could empty the trash even
if there were files in there
that you couldn't normally write,
or the directories that you
couldn't normally write,
because that's what it's--that's what
determines if you can remove a file.
Um...
Now, out of the box,
we could maybe even configure it so
that any user could empty the trash,
because after all,
even if the administrator
threw something in the trash,
I should still be able to empty it.
It's trash after all.
But in a different environment,
you might want to configure it where,
well, if you want to empty the trash
and there's stuff in there that
you couldn't normally throw away,
you have to enter an
administrator password.
So by having Finder use the
Authorization API to do this
operation that essentially,
um,
is not normally allowed,
but have it use a
privileged tool to do it.
We could allow the site administrator
or the user of the computer to determine
what's needed in order to do this.
Now, the key thing in this is
If you were to do this,
you would want to ask for
permission to empty the trash as
the operation you're going to do,
rather than asking for permission
to remove each individual file.
Since the high-level operation the user
is performing is emptying the trash.
Now, I mean,
you could implement it by calling
this tool for every file you
encounter that you can't delete.
If you did it that way,
depending on how the
system is configured,
the user might end up with 10,000
dialogues if there's 10,000 files
in the trash that you can't delete.
So in order to avoid that,
you really want to try and define the
operations that you ask the authorization
API about as high-level as possible.
So I'll go into a little more detail
about the Authorization Services itself.
This is the actual API.
First thing I'll cover
is naming of rights.
So in order-- the Authorization
API works with things called rights.
Now, rights don't actually give
you the right to do something.
They're just a name for something that,
um...
That correspond to the
operation you want to perform.
So you could ask for the right to,
in the example of the finder,
finder would ask for the right
to system.filesystem.empty.trash,
or something like that.
So it would ask for the
right to empty the trash,
and depending on how it was configured,
it would either get that or
it would get it after the user
had entered some information,
or it would be denied.
The other thing I'll go over
is show an example of how to do
the application communication.
So basically how to do the communication
between your application and the tool,
like I showed in that slide.
[Transcript missing]
And finally,
there's one call in Authorization API,
which is probably the call
that most developers end up
using and end up ignoring the
rest of Authorization Services,
which is ExecuteWithPrivileges.
And ExecuteWithPrivileges really meant
as a sort of patch to be able to install
privileged components in the system,
but we really encourage developers
to look at the rest of the
Authorization API and use that and
try and avoid using execute with
privileges as much as possible.
and mainly it's intended to be used
during installation and not during
normal execution of your application.
So naming of rights.
We define rights in a
hierarchical namespace.
We've defined a couple
of top-level domains,
but we don't have an exhaustive
list of every write that
you could possibly think of,
since we don't know what your
application might define as
the operations it needs to do.
Since we want you to define
higher-level operations,
we can't really define one for
each low-level system operation.
So some example write names
that are currently in use
are system.login.console,
which is essentially when
your system boots in Jaguar,
login window actually asks for the
right to log in on the console.
And that triggers a bunch of things,
amongst which, by default,
would be the regular login window UI.
If you configure it differently,
it might actually trigger
the login window UI with some
additional Kerberos features or,
depending--if you actually put
the right plugins in place,
you could completely customize that.
Another write that's
used is system.login.pam,
which is actually what Pam uses
to--in the default module for Pam,
will actually ask the Authorization
API for the right to log in.
And that's what you end up using if
you SSH into your machine on Jaguar.
What ends up happening is Pam actually
calls into the Authorization API,
which in turn goes-- goes back
and calls into Directory Services.
Again, you can configure that
to do something else.
Some other examples:
The DVD player app has
two different rights.
One is the setRegion.initial,
which is the right to set the
initial region on your DVD player.
And the way that's configured out
of the box is anyone can do that.
It means the first time you
pop a CD into your system,
anyone can set the region
to the region of that CD.
And it doesn't ask you for any
administrative password or anything.
Now, if you want to change the region,
since you can only change the
region five times or something--I
don't know the exact number-- but
you can only change the region on
your DVD a certain number of times.
And after changing it that many times,
you're basically your host because
you can't use your DVD player anymore.
So you don't really want your kid
running up and shoving in CDs and
changing the region five times in a row,
at which point you can
throw away your PowerBook.
So in order to change the region,
the default configuration actually
asks for an administrative password.
And since that's not something
that people normally do,
we thought that's probably a good
way to prevent you from accidentally
changing your region too often.
Now, another right that's being
used is System.Preferences.
Currently, that covers all of the
preferences in System.Preferences.
Hopefully, sometime in the future,
we'll be splitting that into
finer-grained authorization requests.
But so right now, you can configure,
for example, whether or not you need to
be administrator to change
certain system preferences.
And currently out of the box,
the answer to that is yes.
The other right, the last one,
is the system.privilege.admin,
and that's the actual right that
execute with privileges uses,
which I'll go into a little
more detail in a second.
Why do you want to do
application communication?
Why do you want to split
your app and your tool?
Well, the reason is you don't want to
run your application as root.
For one thing, that would involve running
the entire app kit or Carbon,
depending on what type
of application you have,
with UID0.
And traditionally, any code you run with
UID0 on a Unix system,
you want to audit that
code for buffer overruns,
memory leaks,
all kinds of things that might
end up compromising the system.
Well,
you probably also don't want to load
plug-ins in code that runs as root,
unless you know you can
trust those plug-ins.
If you run the entire app
kit or Carbon as root,
that does all kinds of things that you
probably don't want to do with UID0.
And in order to avoid having to
audit this massive chunk of code,
which is what Carbon and
Cocoa are--and they are for a reason,
because they have lots and lots
of features-- but you don't
really need all that code to
run with elevated privileges.
So what you want to do is take
just the core part of your app that
performs the actual operation that
needs privileges and split that
off into a separate application.
You can then use both the APIs in
Authorization Services and
traditional Unix APIs like pipes,
or you can use Mach ports or CF messages
or whatever you want to use to
communicate between your application
and the tool that's performing these
operations on behalf of your application.
So, recommended way to use the
Authorization API would be in your app,
and so the app being the
GUI part of your app,
you create an authorization ref.
Then there's an optional step, which is,
If you want to have the nifty UI where
you have like a little lock icon
and not allow the user to change
anything unless you know that it's
going to--unless the lock is unlocked,
rather than asking the user for
permission to do what he's doing
when he hits the save button,
you use copyrights to figure
out what's currently allowed.
Copyrights being
authorization copyrights.
All the Authorization
Services APIs start with authorization.
So you can figure out whether the
right you need is currently allowed,
which might be the case,
because depending on how
the system is configured,
you might already be allowed to do it,
in which case, that's fine.
You're done.
On the other hand, if it's not allowed,
you can do a call to copyrights
with preauthorization.
If the user indicates he
wants to make changes,
so he clicks the little lock button,
you set the preauthorization flag,
and you ask for the rights you need.
The only reason you would
ever use preauthorization,
and the only thing it really does,
is if the configuration
happens to be such that the
timeout on the writes is zero,
which means that even
if you preauthorize,
by the time you turn around and
actually try and perform the operation,
the user's going to get another dialog,
it won't bother to ask
the user the first time.
It'll just say, "Yeah,
it's probably going to succeed later
when you ask if the user enters the
right password." It's basically just
to avoid having to ask the user for
his password twice if the Authorization
Services API knows that by the time
you end up turning around and doing
the thing you were going to do,
it's going to ask again.
So that's an optional step, though.
Then, next thing you do is you pass the
authorization ref to your privileged
tool or to-- it could be a background--
faceless background app or daemon
or whatever they call that in Unix.
And you do that by externalizing
the authorization ref.
So there's a call you make that turns the
authorization ref into a bag of bytes,
which you can just pass around
using whatever mechanism you want.
You want to make sure you use
something that can't be snooped
by some other application,
though,
because that authorization ref allows
your tool to perform certain operations.
So you don't want just anyone
being able to grab that.
Then in your tool, you call
AuthorizationCreateFromExternalForm that
takes that externalized ref and turns it
back into a regular authorization ref.
And then your tool calls
AuthorizationCopyrights,
which will tell you whether or not
the operation is currently allowed.
When your tool makes that call,
it should also pass in
the flag to allow UI.
The UI won't actually
happen in your tool.
The UI will happen as part
of Authorization Services in
a separate process.
The reason you want to do it there is,
depending on how the timeouts and
things like that have been configured,
it might be that the UI isn't
needed until this point.
And if copyrights tells you, yes,
it's okay to go ahead and do it,
then your tool can actually perform
the operation you need to do.
So,
a little bit more on pre-authorization.
The application is allowed to
pre-authorize for the rights that
it is going to need later on.
You still want the tool itself
to always call copyrights just
before doing the operation,
and at that point it's
not pre-authorizing.
The reason you want to do that,
one reason is it might not
be possible to pre-authorize
depending on the configuration.
Another reason is you want to keep
the final call to copyrights as
close to the operation as possible.
And in order for--if you
enable audit logging,
in order for that to work,
you don't want an audit log
entry when the user just asks
for permission to do something.
You want the audit log entry
when--you want the log entry
when it actually happens.
So you want to be able to distinguish
between someone asking for permission
to go and change something versus
actually changing something.
And so the final thing is that it
allows for zero-length timeouts without
double authentication dialogues.
So then there's the,
what we call temporary solution
for third party installers.
It says temporary because, well,
we know we have to provide something
and this is all we have right now.
Going forward,
we'd like to make this more secure
and potentially require maybe that
your application is signed before this
is even possible or things like that.
Right now it doesn't and it's kind of,
we have to put this in because
it's the only way third parties
can get apps on the system that
can do privileged operations.
Using execute with privileges, though,
is potentially dangerous because
the user doesn't really know
what it is you're about to run.
It could be a virus,
it could be something that
destroys the entire hard disk.
So unless they have some way of
trusting the program that's about to
be run with execute with privileges,
it's fairly dangerous.
And we're enhancing the UI to make
the user more and more aware of the
fact that execute with privileges
is a potentially dangerous thing.
So we really encourage developers
to not use this over and over again.
So you don't want to use execute
with privileges every time your app
turns around and does something.
It's much better to have a tool
that is set UID root but uses the
authorization API to make sure that it's
allowed to do what it's about to do.
By making a regular authorization
call rather than using execute
with privileges each time.
So the right you ask for in order to
be able to use execute with privileges,
which you can preauthorize if you want,
is system.privilege.admin.
So, some of the things that came up
when Richard and some of the other
people in our group ended up auditing
code that needed to run as root is,
People writing tools that
actually end up calling a system
ten times in a row to call,
like, binchamad or bin-- call
different standard BSD tools or
actually run shell scripts even.
And there's--if you're writing a
tool that uses--that runs as root,
whether that's because it got
run by execute with privileges
or because it set your ID,
you really need to refer to the
existing security policies and existing
documentation out there in the Unix
world about things that you should and
shouldn't do in set your ID root code.
And amongst those things are
never use system or P open.
And there's lots and lots
of reasons to not do that,
and I won't go into details about it.
But rather than calling user binchamad,
you're better off just calling
the system called chamad to
do what you need it to do.
Thank you.
The other thing is,
and I've mentioned this a couple of
times and I can't mention it enough,
is you really don't want to run
your entire application as root.
You really want to split it up and
run as little code as possible with
elevated privileges because you want to
be able to audit that code that runs as
root doesn't have any security holes.
And finally,
and this is something that we've seen a
lot of examples of where this went wrong,
is don't rely on credentials being shared
or timeouts being greater than zero.
What that means is the way we shipped
the authorization configuration,
which is something that the
owner of the system or the
system administrator can change,
we shipped it by default where
the authorizer can change the
authorization configuration.
So we shipped it by default
where the authorizer can change
the authorization configuration.
credentials are shared,
meaning that if you log
in as an administrator,
there's the notion of an administrator
credential floating around in the system.
Any application that then needs
to do some authorization call,
based on needing an administrator
username and password,
will use that shared credential
if the rule for that right says,
yes,
it's okay to use a shared credential,
which is really convenient
because it provides a sort
of single sign-on ability.
Of course, it's not very secure.
If you really care about security,
you probably don't want to
enable that shared flag.
So you can actually go in and
change that and turn that off.
Now,
it turns out a lot of applications break
when you do that because what they do
is they'll create an authorization ref,
ask for certain privileges,
delete the authorization ref,
recreate a new one,
and assume that the privileges they
just asked for are still there.
So, you can actually do that.
And then you can actually do that
by using the authorization ref.
And then which actually is only
true if that shared flag is set.
The same is true for timeouts
being greater than zero.
That particular use case also assumes
the timeouts are greater than zero,
but even if you don't rely
on things being shared,
there's still a number of
applications that rely on
timeouts being greater than zero,
for example,
by creating an authorization ref
and calling executeWithPrivages
five times in a row.
Well, if you do that,
you might end up with five dialogs
if the timeout is zero or the
timeout is expired by the time you
get to the next executeWithPrivages.
So what you really want to do in a
case like that is run your tool once,
and instead of running those five
commands with executeWithPrivages,
have your tool perform those five
things as one high-level operation,
because it's really one high-level
operation that you're doing.
It could be something like installing
an application or changing your firewall
settings or something like that.
So
So what you do want to do is whenever
you are using XQ with privileges,
which you really should try not to do,
: You want to call that at most once.
So you never want to have more than
one call to execute privileges in the
entire lifetime of your application.
Then another thing is it would be good
if you could test with the most secure
possible version of ETSI authorization.
ETSI authorization is the configuration
file that lets you configure what happens
when a user asks for a particular write.
And I'll show you an example
of the most secure possible
Azure authorization in the next slide.
If you set that in Azure authorization
and your app still works and
only asks for the password once,
then you're fine.
I've tried it with a number
of things that use it,
and some of them end up asking for
the password 12 times in a row.
When you're defining
writes or write names,
you want to define them for
user-initiated operations,
not for low-level system operations.
So in the example of Finder,
you want to define a write
for system.finder.emptytrash.
You don't want to define a write
for system.finder.deleteFile,
at least not for the
emptying the trash case.
You might have that in a different
place if you actually want to be
able to delete a file from a place
where you couldn't normally write.
But if you're doing something,
you don't want to use a write like ask
for permission to delete one file every
time you delete a file from your trash.
Here's the ANSI authorization.
It starts with the plist blurb.
Then the authorization file is actually
nothing more than a dictionary where
the keys are prefixes to write names.
and the values are some of
the following keys-- group.
The value itself is another dictionary,
and that dictionary
contains a couple of keys.
Now, this one, there's the empty key,
which basically matches
every single write.
Maps to dictionary,
which requires group admin,
which basically requires you to enter a
password of a user in the admin group.
The shared flag is false,
which means that if you
authenticate in one application,
you won't automatically
unlock in another application,
and the timeout is set to zero,
which means that as soon as you make
this call to the authorization API,
the credential that you obtain
during that call is only
valid during that computation,
and it's discarded
immediately afterwards,
which means that every
time you do something,
the user would have to enter
his administrator password.
Now, that's the most paranoid
configuration you can choose,
but it would be good if you're using
authorization service to actually
test with this configuration to
make sure your app still behaves
reasonably under these circumstances.
So, to go back, rights,
like I said before,
rights are not capabilities.
So, it's up to you as the application
developer to develop a tool that
turns that right into a capability.
Your tool that runs those privileges
basically makes it into a capability.
Authorization Services itself doesn't.
Um, don't run your entire
application as root,
but limit it to a small
component of your application.
Can't say that enough.
When you do that,
you create an authorization ref,
externalize it, pass it to your tool,
and then check for the
privileges in your tool.
and try and keep the amount
of code that runs with UID0
as small as you possibly can.
And finally, never run shell scripts,
never call system,
never call P open in code
that's running as root.
And in addition to that,
check out some of the documentation
that's around for BSD and
some other Unix systems about
writing code running as root,
and some of the do's and don'ts there,
like checking for buffer
overruns and things like that.
And so finally we have some resources.
There's the developer.apple.com
security page,
which I believe has a link to
the now available documentation
on Authorization Services.
And there's CDSA 2.0,
which is all of our security APIs are
basically layered on top of CDSA,
which is an open group standard
cryptographic interface.
It's worth checking out.
And the PCC.
This is some of the other
things our group is working on.
Then there's some other sessions where
you can check out some of these things.
Tomorrow--no, sorry,
all our other sessions are on Thursday,
so you can enjoy security
all day Thursday.
Thursday morning,
there's a talk about CDSA,
and we'll go over CDSA in general,
about the cryptographic
services in there,
support for certificates,
support for making trust decisions,
things like that.
After that, there's a session about our
higher-level APIs layered on top of
CDSA for managing X.509 certificates,
for managing trust,
storing certificates in keychains,
and things like that,
and generating keys, storing keys,
et cetera.
And then in the afternoon,
there's a feedback forum,
and after the feedback forum,
there's a related session
about Kerberos and Mac OS X,
which I encourage you all to go and see,
where we'll show some of the--I believe
we'll show some of the integration
between the authorization API and
Kerberos and how that enables Kerberos,
like, in login window.